The Project Gutenberg eBook of You can't scare me!
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: You can't scare me!


Author: Henry Farrell

Release date: September 16, 2023 [eBook #71666]

Language: English

Original publication: Chicago, IL: Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, 1947

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK YOU CAN'T SCARE ME! ***




                          YOU CAN'T SCARE ME!

                          By CHARLES F. MYERS

                 Toffee knew that Marc Pillsworth was
                 in trouble again, so she came out of
                  his subconscious mind to help him.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Fantastic Adventures March 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Whether or not they had passed through the portals of Earl Carroll's,
the girls that threaded their way daily through the offices of Marc
Pillsworth's advertising agency were undeniably some of the most
beautiful in the world. It was probably this abundance of beauty, more
than anything else, that caused Marc to shun the more seamy things in
life. It was this also that made it so doubly unbearable that, nine
times out of ten, every time his office door opened, it was only to
admit to his presence one of nature's most vulgar experiments with
American womanhood. What Marc, by marrying Julie, had gained in a wife,
he had quite certainly lost in a secretary.

Miss Quirtt closed the door primly and turned to face Marc--very
easily the nastiest thing she could possibly have done to anyone.
As always, just to add stark horror to the picture, she smiled and
revealed to her unappreciative employer that she had accomplished
the extremely doubtful triumph of whitewashing the old fashioned cow
catcher, without, in any way, detracting from its accustomed appearance
of up-swept grandeur. The proof of this lay in the sudden appearance
of her amazing teeth. As the tight, dry skin of her face drew back to
reveal this hideous accomplishment, it was hard to believe that the
accompanying creaking sound that echoed through the room, was only a
trick of the imagination.

"Yes, Mr. Pillsworth?" she inquired, and thereby added to this already
astonishing display of hideosities, the horror of her voice, which held
all the melody of a palsied hand searching vainly for the key of E on a
rusty guitar.

Marc shuddered and quickly turned his gaze to a strip of oak paneling
which had suddenly become, to him, an object of indescribable
loveliness. He had only lately come to know why Julie had insisted on
the employment of Miss Quirtt. The very qualities which he now found
so repulsive had been, to his wife, the attributes that made the woman
so desirable for the job. It might as well be admitted that Julie had
become unreasonably jealous of Marc's association with a group of girls
that seemed to her, pretty stiff competition for the most glamorous
"Glamour Chorus" in town, let alone herself.

"Well," Marc said with false heartiness, "today is the day, Miss
Quirtt. Will you please bring me the layouts for the Reece campaign?
I'm going to submit them this afternoon. You have the key to that file,
I believe?" He tried hard not to hear her answering rasp, and heaved
a sigh of relief as he heard the door close; the signal that this
horribly jarring note had once more, at least momentarily, gone out of
his life.

When she returned, it was not quite so bad. This time, he had the
contents of the brief case to distract him. It was important that the
layouts be complete. His hands ran over them almost lovingly--a full
year's advertising material for the most sensational medical product
ever to be offered to a suffering public.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old Gregory Reece really had something this time; a cure-all to end all
cure-alls, and one that was the real McCoy into the bargain. It did
everything that the old-time medicine doctor claimed, and a good deal
more, as well. And that was the very thing that made the drug's initial
presentation to the public so difficult. It was too wonderful to be
true.

Reece had been cagy in asking all the agencies to submit advertising
campaigns. That way, he would be certain to get just the right
publicity slant, since this was easily to be the largest account to
be had by any agency, ever. It would "make" the agency that got it,
and quite likely break the ones that didn't. The firm handling this
Reece product would be able to pick and choose the rest of its clients,
and Marc was well aware that if the Mayes Agency, his most formidable
competitors, beat him out on it, they would hesitate considerably less
than a second to pick and choose the very accounts which he, himself,
was now handling. However, he was not disturbed. The campaign that
his boys had turned out was just the ticket--honest, imaginative and
convincing. Besides that, he was already handling a number of other
Reece products with considerable success. Confidently, he slid the
material back into the brief case and rose from his chair. It was then
that he noticed that the room was still haunted by the spectre of the
outer office.

"Is there something else, Miss Quirtt?" he asked stiffly.

"Yes, sir. Mrs. Pillsworth called to say that she would meet you here
for lunch."

"You told her that I would be out, didn't you?"

"No sir."

"What?"

"I didn't tell her, sir." Miss Quirtt shrilled half-wittedly. "She
always makes a fuss about those things. She always thinks that you...."

"I wasn't aware that Mrs. Pillsworth was causing you so much trouble,"
Marc cut in sarcastically. "I'll have to speak to her about it. In the
meantime, Miss Quirtt, call her back and say that I'll be tied up in
some very important business during the lunch hour."

There was sincere concern in Marc's eyes as he picked up his hat and
left the room. Julie's jealousy was fast becoming an office scandal.
Something would certainly have to be done about it, he thought, as he
hurried through the outer office, down the steps, and out, onto the
sidewalk.

This ugly facet in Julie's otherwise completely beguiling nature, still
had a firm grip on his thoughts as, at the sound of the traffic signal,
he stepped from the curb, into the street. The city, in this quiet,
pausing moment, just before the noon rush, seemed almost too serene.
In the mid-day sun, the usually busy intersection had become almost
unnaturally still. Perhaps it was this stillness that made the scream
appear so dreadfully shrill.

It was a scream that, like a certain cough medicine, came with a
three-way action--ear-splitting, hair-raising and nerve-wracking.
Marc stopped short, and spun quickly around to discover the source of
this dismaying performance. What met the eye didn't match up at all.
He wouldn't have been a bit surprised to have seen a banner stretched
across the intersection with the query, "What's Wrong With This
Picture?" written across it.

At it was, the girl simply stood there on the sidewalk and yelled her
head off, for no apparent reason whatever. If there had been a man
with an evil looking glint in his eye, running either from or toward
her,--it made no matter which--there might have been some reason
for this wretched recital, but there was not. Suddenly, the girl
unbelievably increased her volume and pointed directly at Marc. It was
then that he heard the automobile behind him. He turned just in time to
receive a montage impression of flashing chromium, black enamel, and
spinning wheels,--all headed squarely in his direction.

       *       *       *       *       *

What happened after that was a bit confused, except for the one clear
fact that the pavement, apparently overcome with a mad desire to have a
better view of Marc's face, was rushing impetuously toward it. It may
have been this topsy-turvy indifference to the natural laws of gravity
that dislodged the manhole cover, but whatever it was, a dark, black
hole had instantly appeared in the center of the street, and Marc was
unaccountably plunging, head first, into it.

As he descended into the thick darkness of the hole, he had no
sensation of fear, however. He was falling slowly, almost floating
downward; and his occasional contact with it, told him that he
was moving through a sort of cylinder, the wall of which was of a
consistency that brought to mind a sort of soft sponge rubber. Indeed,
he had almost begun to enjoy his mishap, when he came easily to rest on
what apparently was the bottom. This time, his hands came in contact
with a different substance. He seemed to be lying on a small plot of
grass.

As though his landing there had been the signal for it, a thin rim
of bright light appeared evenly around the bottom of the dark tube,
and began to widen steadily. As Marc looked up to discover down what
passage he had come, he realized that it was withdrawing into what
appeared to be a cloudless blue sky, and instantly his attention was
drawn to his immediate surroundings.

There was something familiar about the tranquil little valley, with
its emerald greenness and its soft blue mist that gave everything a
shimmering chiffon-like softness. It was like a place long forgotten
that, once remembered, would surely recall happy memories. Marc got to
his feet and turned to the tree that stood, alone and lovely, behind
him. Then, suddenly he started back in alarm. The tree seemed to have
given bud to a pair of extremely well shaped legs.

"Well, it's about time!" Toffee said shrewishly, peering out at him
from the foliage. "You've no idea how bored I've been, just sitting
around in this awful stately mind of yours. I don't see how you can
stand the silly thing, yourself. Don't you ever think of anything
off-color,--something I could really get my teeth into?"

Marc stared at her in dismay as she swung lightly out of the tree. Her
red hair, caught by the breeze, seemed like flame.

"Good grief!" she continued fretfully. "I've been sitting around up
here, waiting for you, for so long, I've nearly got middle-age spread."

Marc quickly closed his eyes as she prepared to prove this statement.
"I'll take your word for it!" he cried hurriedly.

Toffee's deep green eyes suddenly came alight as she grinned. "Oh, all
right, you hypocritical old Puritan," she said affectionately. "Now
that you're here, I might as well admit I'm glad to see you again." She
started toward him. "Kiss me and say hello,--in that order."

Marc's hand was instantly raised in defense. "Oh, no!" he cried. "We're
not going to have any more of that! It just leads to trouble."

Toffee looked grieved. "You haven't changed a bit," she said
disappointedly.

"And that isn't all," Marc replied evenly. "I'm not _going_ to change,
either. When I think of the way you messed things up for me last
time,[1] my flesh fairly crawls. You're going to have to sit this one
out alone."

[Footnote 1: Reference is made to a previous adventure of Toffee and
Marc Pillsworth, which appeared in the January issue under the title:
"I'll Dream of You."--Ed.]

Toffee smiled mysteriously. "Don't you bet any money on that," she said
confidently. "Anyway, it won't hurt anything if we just talk over old
times, will it?" She motioned toward the tree. "Let's sit down. You
look tired."

Slowly, and definitely against his better judgment, Marc started in
Toffee's direction, then suddenly he stopped short.

"Run! Run!" boomed the voice. It didn't seem to come from anywhere in
particular. It was just in the air. Even the mist seemed to stir under
its heavy tone. "Run! Run!" it repeated, and Marc, not knowing clearly
why, felt an impelling urge to follow its commanding advice.

Suddenly, in the grip of an unknown panic, he was running without
direction or reason, until, in the influence of an impulse, he looked
back, over his shoulder.

The black cylinder, now flexible, was twisting and turning after him,
gaining on him at every step. Frantically, he increased his speed. In
spite of the disturbing presence of Toffee, now that he had found his
way back to the peaceful valley, he was reluctant to leave it. He tried
desperately to dodge, as he saw the mouth of the dark passage almost
directly overhead, yawning threateningly. Then, resignedly, he knew
it was no use. It had followed him, and was already shutting away the
light of the valley.

"Run! Run!" the voice continued vainly, but edging its way through,
was also the voice of Toffee.

"Wait! Wait for me!" she screamed, and suddenly, impetuously, Marc was
holding a hand out to her through the remaining free space.

All of a sudden, the tube closed over them with a dreadful sucking
sound, and they were being lifted upward, Toffee clinging to Marc
desperately, as though for her very life. The upward journey, thought
Marc, was to be very like the descent, except for the accompanying
sound of the voice, as it repeated over and over, "Run! Run!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hit and _run_," someone was saying. "This guy was on the wrong end
of it. Got it right in the middle of the street. According to his
identification, his name is Pillsworth. He's not really hurt, just
bruised up a little."

Then, a door closed somewhere, and a distinctly antiseptic smell was
whispering to Marc that he was in the receiving room of a hospital. He
lay still and kept his eyes closed for a moment. His head had become
the uneasy heir to a dull throbbing feeling.

After a moment of silent consideration, he opened his eyes and then
closed them quickly. He could have sworn that he'd seen Toffee smiling
down at him. But that was impossible! It couldn't possibly happen twice
in one lifetime to the same man,--not one that drank as little as he
did, anyway. In another moment, however, a pair of warm lips were
pressed firmly against his own, to tell him that it not only could
happen, but had. In a mood of utter helplessness, he did not resist.

"Well, that's more like it!" Toffee said happily.

Marc immediately became starkly upright on the slab-like examination
table, and at once, Toffee's wayward mode of dress was forcibly
recalled to him. She still wore the same filmy, transparent scrap of
material, and it, for its part, still seemed to cling to her remarkable
figure reluctantly, as though having urgent business elsewhere. It was
a material that could conceivably be put to a wide variety of uses, but
it was unfortunate that not one of these uses was, in the remotest way,
connected with the coverage of the human body.

"You--you--you--No!" Marc sputtered incoherently.

"No?" asked Toffee.

"No! You can't be here!" Marc gasped. "It isn't right! You'll just have
to go back to where you came from."

Toffee's expression swiftly became that of the patient martyr. "Do I
have to explain it to you every time?" she asked. "You know perfectly
well that I've materialized from your subconscious, and I can't
possibly return until the proper time--whenever that is. I promise
faithfully to disappear when you sleep or lose consciousness--then I
have to go back--but until my mission is accomplished, I have to keep
right on materializing during every one of your waking hours. I do wish
you'd get used to the idea."

Marc winced perceptibly. "Your mission?" he asked.

"Of course," Toffee said. "You men are all alike,--just a pack of
selfish dogs. You must have needed me for something or you wouldn't
have dreamed me up again."

"But you can't stay this time," Marc wailed. "I'm a married man now."

"Oh, don't let that bother you," Toffee said reassuringly. "I don't
mind a bit. In fact, I think it's lovely for you to be married."

Marc leaned defeatedly back on the table and buried his face in his
hands. "Oh, no--no," he murmured mournfully. Then, he sat up quickly
as a voice sounded from just outside the door.

"Is this the right room?" it asked. "Is this where you put Pillsworth?"
Then there followed a silence in which another unseen being apparently
answered.

"Holy smoke!" Marc whispered. "You've got to get out of here! If they
find you in here, like that, all hell will break loose." His eyes
searched the room frantically and finally came to grateful rest on a
white cloth covered screen in the far corner. He pointed quickly to it.
"Get behind that!"

"What for?" hissed Toffee, placing a slender hand defiantly on a round,
smooth hip. "Why do you always want me to hide just when a man comes
around?"

"Don't argue!" Marc said threateningly. "Get behind that screen!"

"Oh, all right," Toffee pouted, "but I think you're just a kill-joy."

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly, she crossed the room, and slid behind the screen, just as the
door opened to admit one of the tallest interns Marc had ever seen. In
his white uniform, he looked like one of the chalk cliffs of Dover, and
his ruddy face might well have been the sun rising over that cliff.

"Well, Mr. Pillsworth!" he called with hateful professional joviality.
"I see that we're up. How are we feeling after our little accident?"

"Were you in it too?" Marc asked dryly, but the young man was not to be
set aside with so trivial a rebuke. He, with his silly smile, thought
Marc, had probably attended patients for years that hated his very guts.

"We were very lucky," the fellow continued offensively.

"Were we?"

"Yes. You haven't really been hurt at all. According to the report,
you've no internal injuries, and only a few bruises that won't show at
all, since they're located...."

"Never mind!" Marc cut in hastily, glancing toward the screen. "I'll
find out where they are for myself."

The interne lounged his way across the room, and dangerously rested his
arm on the top edge of the screen. Marc wondered if he were going to
have a relapse. He almost wished he were still unconscious.

"I--I'll be permitted to leave the hospital, won't I?" he asked shakily.

The young man nodded. "You're perfectly all right. You'll just need
to take it easy for a day or so. We might have kept you here for
observation, but the hospital is too crowded. We tried to call your
wife, but she was out."

"Fine!" said Marc. "And where is my brief case?"

"Brief case?" the fellow asked stupidly.

"Yes. Brief case. The one I was carrying when I was hit."

"But there wasn't any."

Marc felt a rush of terror which subsided almost immediately. It had
probably been taken back to the office. After all, his name and address
were all over the thing. Then, once again, his heart leaped to his
throat, and the brief case was forgotten, as he saw the interne's hand
slip lazily behind the screen. Marc needn't have worried himself about
what was going to happen, for it happened instantly, and no one could
have prevented it anyway.

The young man's red face turned an extravagant shade of deep purple,
as his anguished cry rang out through the room like a call from the
damned. Moaning wretchedly, he bent double and pressed his injured hand
between his knees. The screen tottered drunkenly for a moment, and then
clattered to the floor to reveal Toffee engaged in a half-won battle
to wedge herself into a stiffly starched nurse's uniform.

The fire of virtuous outrage that blazed in Toffee's eyes, as she
stepped over the screen, forcing her arm through a reluctant sleeve,
clearly implied that, compared to her, Elsie Dinsmore was nothing more
than a loose living slattern.

"You bit me!" the interne wailed.

"You bet I did!" snapped Toffee. "And next time you come groping around
where I'm dressing, with those great hammy paws of yours, I'll gnaw
them off clear up to the elbows!"

In the face of such heated self-righteousness, the young man could
hardly doubt her statement. Obviously, he was being tormented by the
picture of himself, continuing, armless, through the remainder of his
life. "I'm sorry," he said contritely, apparently forgetting that, in
view of the excellent nurse's quarters just upstairs, the indignant
girl had chosen a rather singular place to dress.

"You should be," Toffee replied icily. "If it happens again, I'll
report you." And without waiting for an answer, she started regally
from the room.

"Button that dress!" Marc yelled inadvertently.

"Button your lip," Toffee replied composedly, disappearing around the
edge of the door.

Marc wished desperately that he could go after her. There was no
telling what she might do. He only knew that, having Toffee back, was
merely a matter of traveling the shortest road to utter confusion
at the highest rate of speed. He shivered at the thought of what
doubtlessly lay ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Marc swung out of the hospital door, the last brilliant rays of a
dying sun almost blinded him for a moment, and he didn't see Toffee,
at first, sitting there on the steps, chin in hand, and looking very
much like a completely thoughtless rendition of "The Thinker."

"What kept you so long?" she asked irritably.

"I had to sign some papers," Marc explained. "It's too bad that no
one got the license number on the car that hit me. It would have...."
Suddenly, he stopped, and stared at Toffee, mouth agape. The white
uniform that he had last seen her in had miraculously been replaced,
in part, by a black evening gown, that had obviously seen hell at the
ruthless hand of its cutter. It had hardly a back to call its own,
and as for the front, instead of covering Toffee's amazing figure, it
seemed merely to draw a heavy black line around it for emphasis.

A look of pain came into Marc's eyes. "Where did you get _that_?" he
asked weakly.

Toffee motioned vaguely across the street. "At that store over there,"
she answered serenely. "I charged it to you."

Marc groaned. "What was the matter with the uniform? I thought it was
very neat."

"Wasn't it, though?" Toffee replied disdainfully. "It's no wonder all
the people in the hospital are sick. It's enough to make anyone ill,
just having to look at a woman all trussed up in one of those starch
ridden atrocities." She pivoted on the steps, and a shimmering black
cloud moved gracefully above her lovely legs. "Isn't it a dream?"

"Yes," Marc said emphatically. "A perfect nightmare. You look like
something that should be raided and hauled off to headquarters. Why,
if Julie...." A sudden chill lodged itself in his spine. "Holy Smoke!
Let's get out of here!"

Unceremoniously, he took her by the arm and rushed her down the length
of the steps to a taxi that was luckily standing idle in the hospital
drive. As they approached it, an aged head, looking not unlike a
mildewed melon, jutted from the driver's window, and two faded eyes
widened with surprise. From wrinkled lips, a thin whistle sounded
feebly into the dimming day.

"That's what I like about this world," Toffee said, getting into the
cab. "Everyone seems so happy. At least the men do. They're always
whistling."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, I remember this place," Toffee said, as Marc opened the door to
the agency.

"I wish you didn't," Marc said flatly. "Without a memory, you're a
terror, with one, you're a positive menace." He swung the door wide and
motioned toward the steps. "Get in there, out of sight."

"And waste this beautiful dress?" she asked disappointedly. "I thought
you were taking me out somewhere."

"You were wrong," Marc said shortly. "And besides, that dress has
already been wasted until there's hardly anything left of it. It's
indecent."

"Yes. I know," giggled Toffee, starting up the steps.

For a moment, they continued in silence, until Marc suddenly stopped
short. There was a light burning just beyond the head of the stairs.
"Wait a minute," he commanded. "Miss Quirtt is still up there. The
efficiency of that female is enough to make your blood run cold, and
she's got a mind like a clogged up cesspool. If she gets a load of you
in that dress, it'll be a public scandal by morning."

"What are we going to do?" asked Toffee.

Marc considered this for a moment, and came to a decision. "We're
going on up," he said determinedly. "But you'll have to stay behind me.
Stick to me like wall paper."

Toffee nodded enthusiastically. Sticking to Marc like wall paper seemed
to be her fondest dream. She stood aside to let him pass.

The minute Marc stepped into the outer office, into the presence of
Miss Quirtt, he realized the error of his instructions to Toffee. In
her effort to stick to him, she was also treading on his heels, and
Marc, never too sure-footed, anyway, found himself romping helplessly
across the office with all the self-conscious abandon of a performing
porpoise. Miss Quirtt, still at her desk, looked up in alarm, her pale
eyes filled with wonder.

"Mr. Pillsworth!" she squeaked.

Marc, without answering her, lunged drunkenly toward the door to his
office, like a drowning man grasping for a life line. Reaching it, he
drew it open, careful to continue facing Miss Quirtt, and swung his
free arm behind him with all the feeble strength he had left. A soft
rustling sound told him that Toffee, willy-nilly, was safely out of
sight. He said a silent prayer of thanks as he noted that the office
was dark.

"Hello, Miss Quirtt," he said, smiling stiffly. "I just dropped in to
pick up my brief case."

"Your brief case?"

Unexpectedly, from behind, slender fingers were digging lightly
into Marc's ribs, and all of a sudden, he was giggling helplessly.
"Ye--yes," he simpered like a feeble minded school boy. "My--my brief
case!"

His hands crossed violently in mid-air, and came down to his sides with
a resounding slap. Miss Quirtt, taking all this in with horrified eyes,
seemed in acute danger of leaping over her desk and making a run for
it.

"_Mister_ Pillsworth!" she cried.

Marc immediately sobered, as the fingers withdrew. "I was parted from
my brief case in an accident," he explained hopefully. "I thought it
might have been returned here."

"He's been parted from a lot more than his brief case," Miss Quirtt
murmured desperately to herself.

"Well," Marc demanded. "Is it here or not?"

"It is not," the miserable woman answered decisively. "And what's more,
Mr. Reece called to say that if you didn't have your campaign in his
office by morning, it wouldn't be considered." She seemed almost glad
to announce this piece of bad news.

Marc's expression became darkly grave, and then unaccountably, it
seemed, changed to one of high-hearted glee, as the unseen fingers
played lightly over his ribs for a second time. Miss Quirtt clutched
frantically at the edge of the desk to keep from slipping to the floor.

"You do that once more," she gasped, "and I'll scream!"

The annoying fingers withdrew, and Marc's eyes filled with distaste.
"You needn't," he said evenly. "You couldn't be safer, believe me."
As he swung about, to slam the door after him, however, he caught a
glimpse of the dreadful woman, scurrying out of the office like an
unbalanced scorpion.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a mistake that Marc started across the room without first
turning on the lights, for his very first step brought him in violent
contact with Toffee, and the darkened room instantly became the
sounding board for a series of scrambling, grunting noises that were
far from reassuring.

"Let go of me!" Toffee shrieked as she hit the floor.

"Get your heel out of my ear, and maybe I can," Marc rasped furiously.
In the ensuing mad scramble to let go of each other, they became so
helplessly entangled that finally, in desperation, they both gave up.
It was in this edifying moment that the room suddenly became ablaze
with light.

Marc looked up to find Toffee sitting rigidly upright on his chest, her
gaze directed at a chair across the room, her eyes filled with horror.

For an awful moment, the room became starkly silent, as Julie rose from
the chair and stared down at them. Her blue eyes gave Marc a graphic
description of a glacial age that he had thought long dead. The light
flashed in her blond hair, as she lowered her face to Toffee's.

"Get off my husband, you nasty little harpy," she rasped.

Dazedly, Toffee did as she was told, and Julie turned her attention to
Marc.

"And as for you, you double-dealing ogre; get up off that floor and
stop looking like the less intelligent half of a seal act. And you
needn't bother saying that she's your cousin, either. I've heard that
one before. Even _your_ family couldn't produce anything that depraved.
She probably has a police record that would stretch from here to
Shanghai."

"I have nothing to hide!" Toffee put in elegantly, refusing to accept
this blot on her character.

Julie's answering gaze lingered malignantly on the black dress. "Lucky
for you," she said caustically. "You'd be in a really rotten spot for
it, if you did."

"But Julie! You don't understand!" Marc cried, disentangling his long
legs, and getting uncertainly to his feet.

"I've understood for longer than you think!" Julie cried angrily. "I've
always suspected that this sort of thing was going on around here, and
when you broke our luncheon date, I thought I'd come down to find out
the reason. I knew if I waited around long enough, something would turn
up."

Marc turned beseechingly to Toffee. "Tell her," he pleaded. "Tell her
I'm a good husband."

Toffee, flattered at being invited to take such an important part in
this domestic drama, turned beamingly to Julie. "You just don't know
what a wonderful husband you have," she announced innocently.

"I daresay," fumed Julie. "And someday, when you're not too exhausted
from frisking around on the floor with him, suppose you drop around and
tell me all about it!"

"She doesn't know what she's saying!" Marc cried.

"Don't ever tell her," Julie said with false sweetness, "or you'll ruin
some of the liveliest testimony ever written into a court record."

"Court record?"

"The divorce courts _do_ keep records, don't they?"

"Divorce!"

The echo of Marc's cry was still in the air, as Julie crossed to the
door.

"Yes. Divorce, Marc Pillsworth!" she said, turning back. "And I do mean
you."

"But--but you haven't any grounds," Marc said hopefully.

"Don't worry about that," Julie replied, opening the door. "By the time
I get to court, I'll have more grounds than a national park."

The slam of the door put a very definite end to the discussion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marc and Toffee stared dumbly at each other as the angry tap of Julie's
heels, retreating through the outer office, and down the stairs,
sounded dimly back to them through the closed door. Toffee dropped
limply into an upholstered chair and drew her feet up under her.

"I just can't understand it," she said contentedly. "I just can't
understand how your mind could be so dull when your life is so
exciting."

"Oh, my life is a perfect scream," Marc smoldered. "Only I save up the
good parts for when you're around to enjoy them. They seem better that
way."

"You're sweet, Marc," Toffee replied sincerely.

Marc looked at her unbelievingly. "I just don't know how it happened,"
he said quietly. "Except for that hideous old crow out there in the
main office, everything was perfectly tip-top this morning. Now,
all of a sudden, my wife is suing me for divorce, my most important
advertising copy is missing, and if I don't find it by morning, my
business is just as good as ruined. Where did it all start?" He dropped
dejectedly into the chair behind his desk and rested his chin in his
hand. Once again the room became silent.

"It was that blonde," he said absently, after a moment.

"What blonde?" Toffee asked suspiciously, peering from the depths of
her chair.

"The blonde that screamed. She was a decoy. She double crossed me."

"They'll do it every time," Toffee said firmly. "Now you take a
redhead...."

"Never mind that," Marc said pensively. "She started screaming long
before she could possibly have seen the car from where she was
standing. She drew my attention away deliberately, so I'd be sure to
get hit. I'm sure of it. She probably took the brief case, too. Maybe
she was hired for the job. Good grief! If that's true, I'm really in a
spot!"

"They'll do it every time, those blondes," Toffee repeated doggedly.

"I'm sure my brief case was stolen," Marc said, almost to himself.
"I've got to find that blonde. And in the meantime, just to be sure,
I'd better have the boys knock out another campaign tonight." He turned
to the telephone and started to dial feverishly.

After fifteen minutes of assorted telephone conversations, Marc turned
to Toffee dispiritedly. "It's no use," he announced. "Every last one of
them has been called out of town for the weekend. I've never talked to
so many simple minded wives and landladies in all my life. They haven't
any idea where any of the men are. They would pick a time of crisis to
start their weak-minded cavorting."

"Who would want to keep you from having the Reece account?" Toffee
asked.

"The Mayes Agency," Marc answered promptly, and then shook his head.
"But Mayes wouldn't do a thing like this. He's hard as nails when it
comes to business, but he wouldn't do anything criminal, and I might
have been killed by that car this morning. What am I going to do now?"

       *       *       *       *       *

His question was promptly answered by the shrill ring of the telephone.
He picked up the receiver disinterestedly, and before he could give his
name, a sultry feminine voice sounded over the wire.

"This Marc Pillsworth?" it asked.

"Yes. Who's this?"

"Don't you mind who this is, Buster," the voice said evenly. "Just you
listen to what I got to say, and don't interrupt. If you want your
brief case back, you be at the Southlawn Cemetery at eleven sharp
tonight."

"What!" Marc yelled. This was a great deal more than he'd expected.

"Yeah," the voice laughed. "It's just like a kidnapping. In other
words, if you want to see your brain child, alive and healthy again,
you be at the cemetery, like I said, with a million dollars in cash."

"A million!" Marc choked. "But that's impossible!"

"Yeah, I know," the voice replied conversationally. "It's the craziest
thing I ever heard of, myself. I nearly died laughing when they told
me. It's impossible to raise a million in one night--even with a full
moon. I know. I tried."

"But--but--" sputtered Marc.

"No but about it, Buster," the voice said. "Them's the orders. And, oh
yes, at the risk of soundin' corny, I gotta tell you to have the bills
in small denominations and unmarked. Ain't that a scream?"

Suddenly the phone went dead, and Marc looked up dazedly. "I just can't
believe it!" he groaned. "I must be dreaming."

"What's wrong," asked Toffee, "that isn't already?"

"I--I've been kidnapped," Marc said wonderingly. "I--I mean, they're
holding my brief case for ransom."

"Who is?"

"I don't know. It was a woman that called. Probably the blonde. She was
undoubtedly paid off to make the phone call, too. I'm pretty sure it's
someone else that has the copy."

"But the blonde is a lead," Toffee pointed out.

"Yes," Marc agreed. "I've simply got to get ahold of that girl."

"You go around, getting ahold of any girls," Toffee warned, "and I'll
be down on you like the wrath of the Gods. You'd better hire yourself a
detective."

Marc stared at her thoughtfully. "That's not a bad idea," he said
finally.

"Of course it isn't," Toffee replied proudly. "You stick to me, and
I'll have everything straightened out in jig time."

"Jig time," Marc corrected automatically, drawing a soiled newspaper
from his desk drawer. For a moment, he thumbed through the wrinkled
sheets, and then folded it back at the classified section. His hand
traced slowly down the print filled columns for a time, then quickly
darted to the opposite page.

"There she is!" he yelled.

Toffee glanced suspiciously about the room. "Where?" she demanded.

"Here!" As Marc held out the newspaper, his finger indicated an
advertisement in the entertainment section.

"The Loma Club," it read, "Where you can lose a weekend and never
miss it." Under that curious legend was the picture of an over-lush
blonde young lady, whose name, according to the ad, was Ruby Marlow.
The picture had apparently been taken during one of her performances
at the club, for her mouth was wide open. Toffee gazed at the picture
critically.

"That's just the way she looked on the street," Marc said.

"I don't think you were hit by a car, after all," Toffee said sourly.
"A face like that would stop anything."

"Well, at least we know where to start," Marc said enthusiastically.
"We're going to the Loma Club. A detective would take too long."

"Night clubbing?" Toffee asked happily. "Wait till I find me a club. I
remember the last time. It was heavenly."

"This isn't going to be like the last time," Marc said sternly. "If you
start another riot, I'll break your neck with my own bare hands."

       *       *       *       *       *

The inner sanctum of the Loma Club appeared to be more a murky den,
designed especially for barbaric rituals, than a place for relaxation
and entertainment. To confirm this impression, the orchestra platform,
when in use, proved to be nothing more than an altar, upon which
a tiny group of exhausted, down-and-out musicians offered up, in
horrible, though bloodless, sacrifice, the popular tunes of the day.
High priestess of these gory activities, and hiding under the title of
"vocalist," was Ruby Marlow. At the moment, she was holding a battered
microphone in a death grip, that may, or may not, have accounted for
the nerve-wracking, strangled sounds that were issuing from it. To Marc
and Toffee, sitting at a table in a dark corner, the amplification of
Miss Marlow's horrible mouthings was simply incredible.

"Lose a weekend?" Toffee said bitterly. "You'd fairly murder the poor
thing in here. In fact, the whole atmosphere in this place is pretty
murderous." She shoved her glass disdainfully away. "When I want
embalming fluid, I'll go to a mortician. But come to think of it, maybe
the waiter knows best, after all. One more of those, and I'll be dead
as a flounder, anyway."

"I wish I hadn't even tasted the first one," Marc said morosely. "I
keep seeing things."

"What sort of things?"

Marc pointed to a vacant table about a yard from theirs. "I think it's
haunted," he said. "I keep seeing a little man down there. It's awful."

Toffee looked in the direction he indicated. "I don't see anything,"
she said reassuringly. "It's just an ordinary table with a table cloth
on...." Suddenly she stopped speaking, and turned frighteningly pale.

Slowly, a scrawny hand appeared at the edge of the cloth and lifted it.
Then, as if that weren't enough, a wrinkled ferret-like face jutted
from under it, peered out querulously for a moment, and quickly
disappeared. This singular performance was followed by a series of
quick clicking sounds that were totally inexplicable.

"Lord love me!" cried Toffee. "I saw it too, and it was horrible! Is
that all it does? Just peer out and click at you?"

"Isn't that enough?" Marc answered dumbly. "It's happened three times
now."

"Maybe he's a bashful castinette player," Toffee suggested uncertainly.

"I don't think so," Marc answered gravely. "I think it's the liquor. If
I start to order again, stuff your napkin down my throat."

They both had become so engrossed in the phenomenon of the adjoining
table, that neither of them noticed the approaching Miss Marlow. That
the murderess of innocent songs was full blown, was unmistakable even
at the distance of the microphone, but close up, she looked like
something that should be turned on side, and hung over a bar.

"You Mr. Pillsworth?" she asked lazily. "One of the boys says you want
to talk to me."

"That's right," Marc said, looking up. "Please sit down." He gestured
toward Toffee. "This is Miss--uh--Miss----"

"Don't embarrass yourself Mr. Pillsworth," cut in Ruby, turning an
appraising eye on Toffee. "I know the type. They don't come with
names--just sizes." She smiled maliciously. "And what's yours in mink
coats, dear?"

Toffee's answering gaze dwelt indolently on Miss Marlow's expanding
hips. "About five smaller than yours in girdles, hon," she said sweetly.

With all the callousness of the seasoned warrior, Ruby accepted this
retort, and eased the objects that had inspired it into a vacant
chair. She leaned forward and smiled at Marc.

"What can I do for you?" she asked coyly.

"I like your singing," Marc lied with apparent irrelevance.

"I'm so glad to hear it," Ruby was all graciousness as she said it.

"For the first time in your life," Toffee appended viciously.

"But I like it even better in the open air," Marc said evenly. "Your
street singing left me with quite an impression."

       *       *       *       *       *

Gone were the days of Ruby's innocence, but she wasn't above trying to
look lamb-like when the occasion seemed to demand it. She did so now.
"I don't know what you're talking about," she said.

"Okay," Marc countered, "we'll skip that, but who were you working for?"

"You heard me," Ruby said, trying to look indignant. "I don't know what
you're talking about. From where I'm sitting, it just sounds like the
wind whistling through the holes in your head."

"Stop the kidding," Marc demanded. "I know you took the brief case, and
I intend to have it back. Where is it?"

"Search me!" said Ruby.

"If he does," put in Toffee, "I'll scratch his eyes out."

Ruby turned on Toffee a searing gaze that knocked in her teeth, tore
the gown from her back, and left her bent and bleeding in a dark alley.
"I'm getting out of here," she announced, pushing back her chair.
"You're both nuts."

It was Marc's guess that the flambuoyant Miss Marlow would probably be
considered a flop in her own social set without a police record, and
took a chance on it. "Just a minute," he said. "There are a few boys
on the force that would like to know where you are, since you've dyed
your hair, and if you don't level off right now, I'll have them on you
like a swarm of flies."

Ruby settled back in her chair immediately. "Okay! okay!" she said.
"You don't have to yell about it. I'll tell you the whole thing. After
all, I was only hired to go downtown and yell like crazy, and pick up
any loose brief cases I happened to see lying around. There's nothing
illegal in that."

"Who hired you?"

Ruby glanced nervously around the room, and then suddenly smiled. "All
right," she said pleasantly. "I'll tell you. You see that guy sitting
over there? The rough looking bird in the opposite corner. That's Manny
Groute, the racketeer. He hired me."

Marc glanced briefly over his shoulder and shuddered. Manny Groute was
the sort of fellow no one would ever suspect of having had a mother. He
seemed to have been assembled, rather than born. In front of him, the
table looked like a delicate foot rest.

"What does he want with my brief case?" Marc asked uneasily.

"Search me," Ruby said easily. "The ransom I suppose."

"You ask him to search you just once more," Toffee broke in menacingly,
"and I'll break your bottle of peroxide."

"That's enough!" bawled Ruby. "That's the shot that got me! Stand up,
and I'll tear that red hair out by the roots! And don't think I can't
do it, either. I've got Irish blood in my veins!"

"And if you'd like it splashed all over the floor, where you can show
it off better," Toffee flared, "just start something!"

Ruby, an affable creature by nature, and always open to suggestions of
all kinds, took Toffee at her word, and lifted her none too daintily
from her chair.

"Stop that!" yelled Marc, and rushing to the struggling women, took a
bare shoulder in each hand. No sooner did he have them parted, than,
as if by magic, a huge, meaty hand fell on Marc's shoulder and nearly
weighted him to the floor. "Oh, murder!" he murmured as he looked up
into the terrifying face of Manny Groute, which, at the moment, bore an
expression that did little toward inspiring open-hearted confidence and
trust.

"You named it right, bud," Manny rumbled ominously. "I don't like guys
pawin' my girl friend."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the following moments, Ruby and Manny looked like rather grotesque
members of a water ballet, as, in perfect unison, they held their
victims at bay, and drew back their fists. To anyone else, in Toffee's
very potent position, Ruby's doubled fist would have been an item
of consuming interest, but to Toffee, it was a forgotten detail, as
her attention fell on the acrobats that were the current floor show
attraction. It was the first time she had ever seen a human pyramid
being formed, and that so many well developed masculine bodies should
appear all in one clump, seemed to her, the most wonderful spectacle in
the whole world.

If Toffee was oblivious of her coming fate, however, Marc was not.
Indeed, as he glimpsed Manny's mammoth hand in the impressive process
of doubling itself, he found himself regretting his oversight in not
reserving a room while at the hospital that morning. He had a strong
hunch that he would shortly have need of it. It was then that the
unexpected happened.

Swiftly, a claw-like hand jutted from beneath the next table and
grabbed Manny's thick ankle. In another second, Marc felt the
racketeer falling against him, and the two of them were headed for the
floor like a couple of felled pines. Instantly, for Marc, everything
went black.

In the meantime, Ruby, in her determination to do a really bang-up job
on Toffee, was giving her blow all the careful aim, and driving power
it would need. Squinting, she sighted Toffee's right eye, and let go.
It was precisely in this moment that Marc's head struck the floor and
Toffee vanished into thin air.

The man on the flying trapeze had nothing on Ruby. She sailed
gracefully through the air and came quickly to a skidding stop on the
top of a nearby table, at which sat two of the club's more befogged
patrons.

"Perfect belly landing!" one of them cried delightedly. "Smooth as
glass."

"Just like a dame," complained the other, seeing the incident in a
different light. "Not satisfied with yelpin' her horrible yellow head
off at us up there, she's got to come over here and knock over our
drinks."

Ruby boosted herself dazedly to one elbow, and gazed malevolently at
the two. Daintily, she picked up a remaining beer bottle and dispatched
them to the floor in attitudes of idyllic slumber.

"That'll teach you to talk about a lady," she mumbled quickly, and with
that, silently collapsed.

It was in this restful atmosphere that Marc regained consciousness,
and for a moment, as he rolled the still unconscious Manny from his
chest, he had highly colored thoughts of atomic bombs and such. Then,
reassuringly, the wild applause of the more awake customers of the
night club, came to his ears. He got to his feet to discover the cause
of their noisy enthusiasm.

On the dance floor, there was the most remarkable human pyramid anyone
had ever seen. It wasn't so much the acrobats themselves, although
they were a fairly curious looking lot, it was the girl in the black
evening dress that sat casually on the shoulders of the top-most man.
Toffee had not only materialized, but had chosen her spot for doing so,
as well, and from the spectator's point of view, the effect had been
pretty astounding.

"Smartest trick I ever saw," one seedy little man mumbled to himself,
"but I'm dogged if I can figure how they got her up there so fast."

Another guest of the Loma, already dazed by drink, gazed wide-eyed at
the spectacle, and slipped blissfully under the table. "I'd have broke
me pledge long ago," he murmured, coming to sodden rest on the floor,
"if I'd known I was going to start seeing dames like that. It sure
beats the snakes."

But successful as the glorious tableau was, like all good things, it
was destined for an early end. However, it might have continued longer,
if the "Base" acrobat, upon whom the rest were depending for their
support, hadn't become curious about the audience's sudden approval of
the act. Usually, at this stage in the performance, a noticeable chill
descended on the club.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is hard to say what the fellow expected to see, as he turned
his head awkwardly to look above him, but judging by subsequent
developments, it is a pretty safe guess that it was not a redhead in a
dangerous black evening gown, lounging radiantly on the shoulders of
his partners, graciously blowing kisses to the audience. To say that
the man was shaken, is to tell the whole story.

There was a dreadful series of whacking sounds as the forces of gravity
worked swiftly to bring the entire act to an untimely end. As for
Toffee, she alone descended gracefully, looking much like a streamlined
ballerina, knocking off the swan after a busy day in the woods. As
she bowed in the spotlight, the audience went nearly crazy with loud
appreciation.

"I knew they couldn't hold it long," she said breathlessly, rushing up
to Marc. "They're not as strong as they look."

"Never mind that!" Marc yelled. "Let's get out of here, before Ruby and
Manny wake up. If they get ahold of us now, they'll tear us to ribbons."

"But, I thought you wanted to talk to Manny about your brief case."

"I don't think he'll be feeling very conversational," Marc rasped,
grabbing Toffee's arm, and shoving her through the crowd. "Besides, he
doesn't know anything about it. That was just a gag. All I'd get out of
Manny would be a fractured skull. That's what Ruby was counting on."

"But what are we going to do now?"

"There's only one thing to do," Marc said, glancing hastily at his
watch. "It's nearly eleven now. I'll have to go to the cemetery and try
to make a deal."

"Is a cemetery anything like a night club?" Toffee asked excitedly.

Marc glanced back at the unheeded litter of prostrate figures that
graced the Loma Club. "Quite a bit like this one," he said wryly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toffee settled herself comfortably on an ornate tombstone, and leaned
languorously back to rest her head on the buttocks of a stone cupid.

"Get down from there," Marc said sternly. "You look obscene."

"In this moonlight, you're no work of art, yourself," Toffee replied
lazily, making no effort to move.

Marc shrugged helplessly, and seated himself watchfully at the base of
the stone. "It's past eleven," he murmured. "I wish someone would show
up. If I don't get that copy back, I might as well kiss my business
goodbye right now."

"Maybe Manny's got it after all," Toffee suggested. "And he's still
out."

"I don't think so. And speaking of him, I'd sure like to know who the
little man under the table was. He just about saved my life when he
grabbed Manny's ankle." Marc glanced around peering intently into the
darkness that, except for occasional patches of bright moonlight that
filtered through the trees, was all around them. "It looks like we're
all alone here with the spooks."

"What are spooks?" Toffee leaned forward, interested.

"They're something like you," Marc said absently. "Sometimes they are,
and sometimes they aren't. Anyway, I understand they're always raising
hell with somebody."

"They sound fine," Toffee said. "How do you go about stirring up a few?"

"Never mind," Marc replied, "we wouldn't have time for it, even if you
could. Besides, no self-respecting spook would have anything to do with
you. He'd rather be caught dead."

"Oh yeah?" Toffee said unexpectedly. "I'll bet I'm looking at one right
now."

"Nonsense."

"If you don't believe me," Toffee said woundedly, "just look over
there."

Humoring her, Marc turned his gaze in the direction that she had
indicated, and suddenly froze. A claw-like hand was moving stealthily
around the edge of a nearby head stone, and the effect was something
worse than ghostly.

[Illustration: Marc and Toffee stood petrified as a claw-like hand and
wizened head crept into view.]

Transfixed, Marc watched it as it came to rest at the foot of the
stone, and was suddenly followed by a wizened head. Marc tried hard to
suppress a gasp of astonishment as he identified the ferret-like face
as the same one that had appeared beneath the table at the club. He had
only a moment in which to recognize it, for as before, it vanished as
quickly as it had appeared, to be followed by the clicking sounds, that
now echoed weirdly through the cemetery.

"Oh, that's not a spook," Toffee said disappointedly, and then, on
second thought added, "at least I don't think it is."

"You bet it isn't," Marc cried, jumping quickly to his feet. "That's
probably the guy that's got my brief case!" Swiftly, he took a step
forward, caught his toe on a low marker, and sprawled, head long, into
a landing that was all grin and gravel. His breath unhesitatingly
rushed out to meet the night air, and apparently liked the company, for
it didn't bother to come back for a while. In the ensuing stillness,
hasty footsteps could be heard making their way out of the cemetery.

"Well, that's that, I guess," Marc groaned morosely, then he had
regained his breath. "I scared him away, and he was my last chance. And
to think that he was right next to us in the night club all the time!"
He sat up and rested his chin defeatedly in his cupped hands. "With my
wife gone, and my business gone, I might just as well go away and try
to forget it all right now."

"Maybe you could go where those other men went," Toffee said in a
baffling attempt to be helpful.

"What other men?"

"The ones that work for you. You said they'd gone cavorting, and that
sounds pretty forgetful. Did they have something to forget?"

"No. They all got urgent telegrams."

"Who from?"

"How should I know?"

For a moment, neither of them spoke, and then, all of a sudden, Marc's
chin lifted, and his hands fell to the ground. "I'll bet that was a
frame up too," he said. "It was! I'm sure of it! Whoever has my brief
case, sent those wires to get the boys out of town, so they couldn't
get out another campaign. They're all out on a goose chase."

"Then all we have to do," Toffee said brightly, "is find out who sent
them. Then we'll know who to see about the brief case."

"Yeah. But how?"

"Call up their homes again."

"It might be an idea," Marc said, his hope rising faintly. "Come on
down from there. We'll have to find a drug store with a telephone."

With a shockingly familiar hand, Toffee grasped the cupid, and boosted
herself away from her perch. "Let's go!" she cried gaily, landing
lightly beside Marc. "I don't like this place much, anyhow. There isn't
enough life in it."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the drug store, Toffee had just finished her third soda, and the
teen aged fountain attendant, chin on counter, to have a better view
of her, had just completed his fiftieth blissful sigh. He'd never seen
so dazzling a creature anywhere, before. Suddenly, they both looked up
as the door to the corner telephone booth burst open, and Marc came
hurrying out.

"I've got the name," he said excitedly. "It was a Mr. Polasky, whoever
that is. A few of the wives I talked to, said their husbands didn't
know who it was either, but left because the messages were so urgent.
It's my guess that the name's a phoney."

"What are you going to do?"

"I don't know," he said, as though just realizing it for the first
time. "Good night! It's just another dead end, isn't it?"

For a moment, they gazed at each other worriedly, as the boy, overcome
by his consuming curiosity about Toffee, edged closer.

"I have it!" Toffee cried suddenly.

"What?" yelled Marc and the boy simultaneously. Marc turned witheringly
on the youngster, and he moved away again.

"I know what you can do," Toffee continued, pausing long enough to
reassure the boy with a radiant smile. "You call up the telegraph
company, and tell them you're Mr. Polasky. Tell them that you were
expecting answers to the wires you sent and you still haven't received
any. Then ask them to check to see if the wires were really delivered
and check back with you. When they say they will, ask them to check the
address and telephone number they have written down for you, and insist
that they read it to you, just to make sure. That way, you'll know
where Polasky lives, anyway,--or whoever it is."

Marc stared at her in amazement for a moment. "I don't know if it'll
work," he said, "but it's certainly worth a try, Toffee. You're
wonderful!" He leaned down and kissed her on the forehead.

"I'm pretty darned surprised, myself," Toffee replied happily. "I'll
say it all over again, if you'll kiss me again." But Marc was already
on his way to the phone booth.

Toffee turned to the boy and shrugged. "I don't know what he'd do
without me," she said, her voice heavy with theatrical weariness. "I
simply don't know!" Then she smiled as the boy leaned his chin back on
the counter and sighed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marc paid the cab driver and turned to regard the apartment house
questioningly. "I didn't expect anything quite so shabby," he said.

"Are you sure this is the number you got from the girl at the telegraph
company?" Toffee asked.

"Positive," Marc replied. "Well, we can be sure of one thing, at least.
Mayes wouldn't be living here. I'll bet he's never even seen this part
of town." A small frown creased his forehead. "Maybe it's just another
run around. Maybe Ruby sent the wires; she could have easily. I'd hate
to run into her again."

"If it is Ruby," Toffee replied heavily, "I'll rip that yellow hair of
hers out by its black roots. Her and her Irish blood!"

"Well, there's only one way to find out," Marc said wearily, starting
forward. Then, he stopped, as Toffee tugged at his sleeve.

"What if it turns out to be Manny?" she asked apprehensively.

Marc winced. "We'll just have to face him, I guess. Anyway, it might
not be. It could be the little fellow that tripped Manny."

"Yes. I guess it could be," Toffee admitted. "Well, in that case, let's
go."

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside, the old apartment house held all the stale, musty smells of old
cooking and all the other activities of daily, crowded living, and the
gloom in its hallways was almost tangible. Slowly, Marc and Toffee,
like a couple of conspirators, crept along the downstairs passage,
pausing before each door to read its carelessly stenciled number.
Presently, at the rear of the hall, where the gloom was the thickest,
they stopped.

"Well," Marc whispered uneasily, "this is number seven. This must be
it."

"Yep," Toffee echoed. "This must be it, all right."

For a long moment, they just stood and stared at each other with
apprehension.

"Well," Toffee said finally, "don't just stand there,--knock, ring a
bell,--do something!"

"Don't rush me," Marc hissed irritably. "I'm looking for a name plate."

"Well, don't look at me. I'm not wearing one. Try looking on the door."

Marc, realizing the wisdom of her advice, turned his attention to the
forbidding panel, and subjected it to a more thorough scrutiny than was
absolutely necessary. All he needed was a magnifying glass to complete
his impersonation of Sherlock Holmes on one of his more important
cases. He was so close to the door, that when it suddenly opened, he
nearly pitched into apartment number seven head first.

"I heard you snooping around out here!" a metallic voice shrilled above
him. Marc could hardly believe his ears.

He had always known that, as long as he lived, he would never see a
more horrible looking woman than Miss Quirtt, but now, as he looked up,
he was dismayed to find that even she, this time a prickly nightmare in
pin curlers, had surpassed herself for sheer frightfulness. And just
to complete the picture, there was a strange light in her pallid eyes,
that he had never seen there before. The movie monsters would have to
go a long way to match this, he thought.

"Nice of you to drop in," Miss Quirtt said, and her usual twangey voice
had something else in it that was almost undefinable. "Might as well
ask your girl friend in too."

From outside, Toffee was spared the alarming sight of Miss Quirtt,
but the voice had already suggested to her what she might see, if the
door were fully open. "I think I have to be running along," she said
uncertainly. "Thanks."

"I think you'd better come in," Marc warned shakily. "She's got a gun."

Toffee peered around the edge of the door and her face went starkly
white. Her nose had almost brushed against the business end of a
pistol that was almost as formidable as Miss Quirtt, herself. Then,
unaccountably, as though remembering a joke, Toffee suddenly smiled
and stepped into the room. "Well, if you really insist ..." she said
breezily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toffee's manner had an instant calming effect on Marc, and in the
moment in which Miss Quirtt closed the door behind Toffee, he felt his
sense of reality slowly returning. "Is this a joke, Miss Quirtt?" he
demanded.

Miss Quirtt regarded him with a sidelong, hostile glance. "I'm not
laughing, am I?" she shrilled.

"Then, what...."

"You'd sure like to have your hands on that again, wouldn't you?"
she gloated, gesturing toward a shabby table in the corner. On it,
looking like a diamond in the mud, rested Marc's brief case. He started
automatically toward it, but stopped short as, from the corner of his
eye, he saw the gun swerve quickly from Toffee to him.

"Don't be greedy," Miss Quirtt said amusedly.

"I can't get a million dollars together right away," Marc began
feverishly, "but I'll...."

"Don't be silly," Miss Quirtt broke in, with a weird laugh. "I wouldn't
give it to you for two million. And if you went to the cemetery, I hope
you had a lovely time. I'm sorry that I couldn't make it."

"We saw your friend there," Marc said sourly, "but he got away."

"My friend?" Miss Quirtt's eyes rolled, and came dangerously close to
crossing, in a futile attempt to express perplexity.

"Yes. The little fellow you sent; the one with the ferret face."

"That clicks," Toffee added helpfully.

Miss Quirtt looked at them unbelievingly. "I didn't send anyone out
there," she said, her voice racing uphill, out of control. "I had no
intention of going myself, either. That was just a touch of mystery to
throw you off the track. I don't intend to give you that brief case at
any price. Besides," she added thoughtfully, "I don't know any little
ferrets that ... that click."

"I wonder who it was?" Toffee said, deeply absorbed in the question.

The strange, fanatic gleam suddenly burned more brightly in the
horrible woman's eyes. "I'm going to ruin you, Marc Pillsworth!" she
announced dramatically, her stringy voice rising to such a pitch that
it caused one to wonder if she hadn't studied bird calls at one time or
another. Then she added as an afterthought, "And I think I'll kill you,
too."

"But why?" Marc and Toffee chorused.

Miss Quirtt's eyes rolled again, this time in a painful attempt at
coyness. "You promise you won't tell?" she asked foolishly.

Marc and Toffee exchanged a glance that held a full hour's discussion
on the woman's mental status.

"Of course not," Toffee said persuasively. "Your secret couldn't be in
safer hands."

"Well," Miss Quirtt said, becoming incongruously chatty, considering
the formidable weapon in her hand, "I'll tell you all about it. It's
all part of a plan, and it's terribly clever. I'm sure you'll think
so." She paused to smile at them like a five-year-old about to recite
a poem before company. "I've been working for big firms for twenty
years now ... and just working that's all. I've been watching my smug
employers and their smug wives, going about their smug lives, never
giving me a thought, for twenty years. Can you imagine what that can
do to a sensitive woman, like me?" She turned pleading eyes on Toffee.
"Has a boss ever made a pass at me?"

"No!" Toffee cried, catching the confessional spirit of the thing.

Miss Quirtt nodded approvingly. She seemed to like dramatic effect.
"Has a boss' wife ever been jealous of me?" she screeched.

"No!" Toffee cried again, recognizing her cue.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's right," Miss Quirtt continued sadly, brushing a tear away from
the end of her nose with the muzzle of the gun, then promptly leveling
the weapon directly to Marc's heart. "They never have. So I decided to
ruin the lot of them." She turned back to Marc. "You're not the first
one," she said, beginning to brighten. "There have been many others. I
used to work for Mr. Burke."

"The ... the Mr. Burke that committed suicide?" Marc faltered.

"That's right," Miss Quirtt answered proudly. "That was one of my most
poetic projects. Mr. Burke found himself with a lot of worthless stock
on his hands one morning, and simply jumped out the window. He died
without ever knowing who had bought the stuff for him. We parted the
best of friends. He left me one of my very finest references ... along
with the suicide note."

"It did end well, didn't it?" Toffee put in blandly.

"Yes. It was just lovely," Miss Quirtt agreed. "Much better than the
job I did on old Mr. Grant. He didn't leave me any reference at
all, and I had to write it myself. How I hate forgery! Of course, it
may not have been entirely his fault. After all, they did rush him
something awful when they came to take him away to the asylum." A
dreamy reminiscent look came into her eyes. "The job with Mr. Forbes
was much better. He said some very nice things about me before he left
for prison. I was the last one he said goodbye to."

Marc shuddered. "A very impressive career," he said, "but you can't
get away with it this time. I know that it was you that stole my brief
case."

"Yes," Miss Quirtt answered promptly. "And that's why I'm going to have
to make corpses of you ... so you can't talk, you know. It's really
not my way of doing things, but I suppose that everyone has to make
exceptions occasionally." She turned to Toffee and smiled. "I'm sorry
to have to put you out of the way, dear, but you understand, I'm sure."

"Oh, perfectly," Toffee said helpfully, returning the smile.

Marc was beginning to wonder just how many of them were crazy, and in
what combination. Even Toffee was making less sense than usual.

"And if I do say so, myself," Toffee continued. "Marc and I will make
lovely corpses."

"Oh, indeed you will!" Miss Quirtt agreed enthusiastically. "Some of
the nicest I've ever seen. And you'll be the very first ones that I've
made all by myself. I'll be very proud of you."

"That's nice to know," Toffee said, "but you're not going to use that
gun are you?"

"Why not?"

"It won't work," Toffee said simply. "You'd better think of something
else."

Miss Quirtt looked at her suspiciously. "What do you mean, it won't
work?"

"We hate to admit it, and we wouldn't to anyone else," Toffee said,
"but Marc and I are a little odd in some ways. Guns don't faze us. In
fact, there's very little that does. If you doubt me, shoot me, and see
for yourself."

Marc's mouth started open in alarm, but closed again as Toffee winked
at him.

Apparently Miss Quirtt was as open to suggestions as was Miss Ruby
Marlow. "All right," she said agreeably, a shrewd look coming into her
eyes. "Just stand over there."

       *       *       *       *       *

Toffee followed her directions, and took her place before the wall, and
near Marc, where Miss Quirtt could keep them both covered during the
experiment. "Be sure you fire close up," she said. "I wouldn't want you
to miss."

"Don't worry," Miss Quirtt said menacingly, leveling the gun at Toffee.
"I won't." She squinted down the barrel, her eyes really crossing this
time, and pressed the trigger.

There was a sudden flash of white light, and an explosion. A crack
etched it's way crazily through the plaster just behind Toffee, but
Toffee, herself, remained just as she had been, a composed, smiling
figure in a scandalous black evening gown.

"You see?" she said. "You'll just have to think of something else."

Miss Quirtt stared at her, not seeming to be so much amazed as
thoughtful. "I'll have to think this over," she said pensively. "I had
my heart set on making corpses of you, ... being my first, and all, you
know." She crossed to the door and locked it, keeping the key, then
turned back to them apologetically. "I'm afraid I'll have to leave you
for a while," she said. "I'll have to dream about this. I get all my
best ideas in my dreams."

"I'll bet you do," Marc said flatly.

She regarded the crack in the wall for a moment. "The landlord's going
to make an awful fuss about that. He's so narrow minded. What's a home,
if you can't shoot it up a bit once in a while?" She turned to Toffee.
"It's rude of me, I know, to leave you alone like this, but I simply
have to get to sleep right away, to think of some way to rub you out,
as they say. You won't mind?"

"Certainly not!" Toffee replied grandly. "Go right ahead!"

As the strange woman started in the direction of the bedroom, Marc
turned amazedly to Toffee. "She's crazy as a loon," he whispered.

"Balmy as a night in June," Toffee hissed back.

Suddenly Miss Quirtt whirled about. "I heard that!" she shrieked. "I
heard what you said!" She regarded Toffee regretfully. "And I thought
you were such a nice, helpful girl, too. It makes me sad to know that
you can't be trusted. Now I won't be able to enjoy having your corpse
around, like I would have." She moved quickly to a closet, dragged out
two straight jackets, and handed them to Marc and Toffee. "Put them
on!" she commanded, brandishing her gun.

"They're perfectly lovely," Toffee said sarcastically, struggling into
hers. "They remind me of nurse's uniforms. Where did you ever get them?"

"Oh, I have dozens of them," Miss Quirtt said proudly. "And they were
all given to me. Every time I go for a vacation, when I leave, they
give me one of those. I remember a lovely summer at Bellview. The one
you have on reminds me of it."

A few minutes later, Miss Quirtt surveyed her trussed up guests from
her bedroom door, and smiled with satisfaction. "I think the gags were
a nice idea, too," she said. "You'll have to be quiet, anyway, if I'm
to get any sleep." Then, closing the door, she sighed, "Oh, but you'll
make such lovely corpses. And I can hardly wait to have some of my own."

Silently, Marc and Toffee, their mouths uncomfortably full of Miss
Quirtt's more intimate garments, gazed at each other mournfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be supposed that the last minutes of one's life would seem to
pass with a terrible swiftness, but to Marc, it seemed that the minutes
of the last two hours had dragged like the third act of a bad play, and
he was certainly convinced that the morning would see him a corpse. And
the fact that his lifeless body would receive all the personal care and
attention due it, as the victim of Miss Quirtt's first murder, didn't
help his state of mind as one might have supposed. He was not surprised
that Toffee, during the last five minutes or so, had begun to behave
peculiarly.

She seemed to be acting on a definite pattern, for she had repeated
her little routine three times now, and it had always been precisely
the same. She would leave her chair, walk directly to the wall, stand
facing it for a moment, and then bend over at the hips, as though
looking at something on the floor. This done, she would look up at Marc
and nod her head toward the spot which she had been watching.

At first, Marc merely thought that it was nice that Miss Quirtt had
left their legs free, if exercise meant so much to Toffee, but then,
slowly, he began to realize that perhaps the nodding meant that Toffee
had discovered something and wished him to follow her.

Walking to the wall, he waited until Toffee began to bend forward, and
followed her example. Once down, he gazed at the floor intently, but
there didn't seem to be anything to see, except a dismal section of
very ordinary flooring. He looked up questioningly, but Toffee motioned
him back again. This time, he gave the floor his undivided attention.
He was determined to discover what it was that she had been looking at,
and wanted him to see. At least it would give him something to think
about, besides becoming a dead body.

If Marc had seen Toffee remove herself from his side, to a position
just behind him, he would probably have moved away from the wall like
a flash, but since he did not, he remained just as he was, bent over,
head to the wall, and perfectly motionless. Toffee couldn't have asked
a more willing victim, or a more perfect target.

Slowly, as she brought her foot to Marc's unsuspecting posterior, a
pained expression crept into her green eyes. She hesitated a moment,
made a few practice kicks for aim, then swung her foot quickly behind
her. Sure of her aim now, she closed her eyes tightly, and brought her
foot forward with all the force of a sledge hammer.

There was a dreadful splitting sound as Marc's head struck the wall.
As he dropped to the floor and rolled over, the blissful, foolish grin
of unconsciousness was discernible even behind the gag. In the next
second, the room had become deathly still.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Marc closed the door to Gregory Reece's office, he saw Toffee
waiting for him near the elevator, and scowled. Somehow, in the morning
light, the black dress seemed to leave even more of her exposed than it
had in the evening. Undaunted, Toffee smiled brightly at the sight of
him.

"Did he like the advertising campaign?" she asked. "Are you going to
get the account?"

Marc nodded wearily. "Yes," he said in a dead voice. "He was very
enthusiastic."

"What did he say?"

"I don't know," Marc replied sourly. "I could barely hear him. My
head was roaring like a lion cage at feeding time." He turned to her
fretfully. "Was it absolutely necessary for you to drive my head half
way through that wall? If that landlord's to be sore about that bullet
hole, he'll fairly scream his head off at the chunk of plaster I
knocked out."

"I had to be sure," Toffee explained logically. "I had to be sure you'd
lose consciousness, so I could return to your subconscious until you
woke up. It was the only way I could get out of that straight jacket.
You know that."

"Well, you could have told me, so I could have braced myself," Marc
argued unreasonably. "You nearly broke my neck."

"With a gag in my mouth?"

"No, I guess not," Marc admitted reluctantly. "But it seems that you
could have tempered your blow a little, at least." He frowned as Toffee
suddenly began to giggle. "What's so funny?"

"I was thinking of the desk sergeant, down at headquarters. When I
materialized, I miscalculated a bit, and faded in right on top of his
desk. He nearly had me locked up without even listening to what I had
to say. I don't know when he looked more mixed up, then or later, when
he got a load of Miss Quirtt in those curlers."

"Now that I've got the account," Marc sighed, "I wonder if it was all
worth it."

"Of course it was," Toffee said. "I thought it was loads of fun!"

If Marc's eyes had really held the power that their expression
suggested, the ceiling would certainly have been down around Toffee's
flaming head without further delay. "Let's get a cup of coffee," he
suggested helplessly. "My head's chiming like Big Ben at midnight."

"All right," Toffee agreed, reaching for the elevator button.

"No! Not that!" Marc yelled. "The way that young fiend in there
operates that thing, I'd be lucky to get downstairs with the top of my
head still on. Let's take the stairs."

As together, they started down the carpeted stairway, Marc became
pensive. Even if the matter of the brief case had been settled,
his trouble with Julie was still as bad as it had been the day
before ... probably worse, for all he knew. Then too, there was the
problem of Toffee. Matters certainly wouldn't improve with her around.
His troubled conjecture came to an abrupt end at the sound of Toffee's
anxious voice.

"Look out!" she cried. "Look out for that tear in the carpet!"

"What did you...." Whatever Marc was going to say, was lost for good,
as the toe of his shoe slipped under the torn carpet, for in the next
instant he was flying, head first, down the length of the stairs, steps
flashing past his face like box cars on a fast freight. Down and down
he fell, on and on, and then, looking away from the stairs for a brief
moment, he could see that he was heading into a dense, black fog, that
obscured the bottom of the stairway.

As he drew close to this fog, it seemed to reach toward him and swallow
him up, and then he found that he was falling through a great, unknown
region, that was devoid of all light. He wondered where the floor had
gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

When finally he came to rest, Marc couldn't calculate how long he
had been falling; it seemed an endless period. Wonderingly, he sat
up, and looked around him for some bit of light, some reassuring bit
of brightness that would tell him he hadn't lost his sight. Even as
he searched, however, the fog began to lift, becoming lighter and
lighter, until there was nothing left of it except a soft blue mist.
Immediately, his surroundings were familiar this time. The valley was
just as comforting and lovely as he had remembered it.

"It hardly seems fair!" came Toffee's petulant voice, and turning, Marc
discovered her standing just behind him.

"What hardly seems fair?" he asked, rising to his feet.

"That I only got to materialize for a single night this time. The way
you bounce me in and out of your subconscious is a screaming crime. I
suppose I'll have to sit around here for another eternity, just waiting
for you to get into another scrape that you can't get yourself out of."

"That's right," Marc said, grinning at her affectionately. "Every time
I find myself in a tight spot, I just say to myself, 'Well, Marc, old
boy, it's time to drop in and pick up Toffee. Now, there's a girl that
can really fix things up!'" He stopped speaking and smiled down at her
wryly.

"I'll bet you do," she pouted. "You just use me. Men are all selfish
dogs."

"And don't you love them!" said Marc.

Suddenly Toffee grinned. "I guess I do," she laughed. "I suppose I'm
just sore because it always comes to an end so soon. It'll all be over
in a minute now. Kiss me goodbye?"

"Naturally," said Marc, and took her tenderly into his arms.

After a long moment, he released her, and looked down to find that she
was smiling up at him.

"And remember," she said. "Think of something off-color once in a
while, so I'll have something to work on. Besides, it'll be good for
you."

"I will," Marc laughed. "I'll think of you. That is, I'll think of you
when Julie...." Suddenly his smile faded into an expression of deep
concern. "Julie! She's still going to divorce me! You're walking out on
me, this time, before everything's settled."

"No, I'm not," Toffee said. "Everything will be all right."

"I believe you want me to be divorced!"

"Nonsense!" Toffee replied seriously. "You two love each other, and I
wouldn't have anything happen to that for the world. Julie just needed
something to jar her out of her jealousy, and I think she's had it.
When you get...."

Toffee's voice trailed off into the distance, and Marc looked down
to find that his arms were empty. She had vanished into the mist, it
seemed.

"Toffee! Toffee!" he called, but there was no answer, and, all of
a sudden, he felt dreadfully alone. His sense of loss was deep and
painful. Then the voice broke through the stillness.

"Run! Run!" it boomed, just as before, and also as before, it seemed
to come from everywhere and nowhere. "Run! Run!" it repeated, more
urgently this time.

Without questioning the reason, Marc began to run frantically, dodging
this way and that, to avoid ... he didn't know what. Then, with horror,
he realized that, in his confusion, he had run in the wrong direction,
for the black fog was directly in front of him, reaching toward him.
Marc turned, but too late. Already, it was shutting out the soft light
of the valley.

"Run! Run!" the voice continued weirdly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In the _runner_, there was a tear, lady," a strange voice was saying,
"and he musta caught his toe in it. Anyway, we found him at the foot of
the stairs. That's all I know about it."

"Well, thank you very much for bringing him," Julie's voice answered.
"I'm sure he'll be very grateful to you when he wakes up."

There followed the sound of retreating footsteps and a door closing.
Marc kept his eyes closed, and listened, until he heard Julie
returning. Slowly, he opened his eyes and was glad to find that he was
propped up in a chair in his own living room.

"Well!" Julie exclaimed annoyedly, seeing that his eyes were open. "So
you decided to wake up after all, did you? The men that just dragged
you in here said that you'd fallen down a flight of stairs. What a
laugh that is! Dead drunk, and out cold would be more like it!"

"But I _did_ fall down," Marc protested feebly.

"It's a wonder they didn't come hauling that vile little redhead in
with you!" Julie said icily. "Where did she collapse?"

"But you don't understand about her," Marc said desperately.

"Hah!" snorted Julie, and the laugh that followed the inelegant
exclamation was frozen solid around the edges.

"But Julie," Marc pleaded wretchedly. "I...."

"There's a gentleman waiting to see you, ma'am," Marie, the maid,
interrupted. "His name is Mr. Dembert."

"Send him in here," Julie said, a grim smile forming on her lips.

"If it's someone to see you," Marc said apologetically, starting to
rise, "I'll just go to my room."

"Oh, no!" Julie cried. "This ought to be of great interest to you. I
really wouldn't want you to miss it."

"Very well," he said apprehensively, sinking back into the chair.

In a moment, Marie appeared again in the doorway. "Mr. Dembert, ma'am,"
she announced, and swiftly disappeared.

Marc's eyes moved listlessly to the doorway, and then, suddenly froze
on the man that stood there. It was the ferret-faced little fellow from
the Loma Club and the cemetery. Marc flinched at the memory of the
clicking sounds, and the man's mysterious behavior. Then, he was aware
that Julie was watching him.

"I want you to know Mr. Dembert, Marc," she said smoothly. "He's from
the Regal Detective Agency, and he had the pleasure of following you
all last evening ... if you can call it a pleasure. From what he told
me over the telephone this morning, it must have been some night. He
tells me that he even had to save you from a thug once--for the divorce
courts, of course."

"A private detective?" Marc asked bewilderedly.

"I knew you'd be interested," Julie said with amusement, and then
turned to the odd little man who had remained in the doorway. "Come in,
come in," she called graciously. "I hope you brought the pictures?"

"Yes, I did," the fellow squeaked. "I picked them up only a moment
ago and rushed them right over, without taking time to look at them
myself." He moved with a mouse-like quickness across the room, and
deposited an envelope in Julie's eager hand. "They're all there ... the
night club, the cemetery, the drug store, and the apartment house. You
can see the address plainly on that last one, I think. I was right in
front when I took it."

"Thank you," Julie said, turning to smile viciously at Marc. "Mr.
Dembert photographed you and that redheaded trollop, dear, everywhere
you went last night. The results ought to be mighty interesting to the
judge."

       *       *       *       *       *

Marc winced, as he saw Julie open the envelope and draw out the
pictures. He closed his eyes tight. He couldn't bear to see what was
going to happen when Julie saw them. There would never, on earth, be
a way to explain them. It seemed that the room remained quiet for an
eternity until Julie's voice unexpectedly cut through the stillness
like a knife.

"Get out!" she screamed. "Get out of this house, and don't you ever try
to set foot in it again! If you do, I'll have you thrown out! You ...
you ... you dirty, lying, double-dealing cheat!"

Marc, sincerely wishing that he had done so earlier, rose slowly to his
feet and moved in the direction of the door, without even bothering to
open his eyes. Then, thinking that Julie must be behind him by now, he
opened them and suddenly stopped short. Mr. Dembert, more mouse-like
than ever, was scurrying toward the door in a fit of terror. Quickly,
he skidded around the corner, and was out of sight. A split second
later, the slam of the front door announced his final departure.

"But, what ..." Marc stammered, turning to Julie.

As if he hadn't had enough surprises, he was suddenly presented with
one more, that was even more confounding than any of the others.
Julie's expression, as she came toward him, was one of absolute
contriteness.

"Oh, Marc!" she cried. "Can you ever forgive me? I might have known
you weren't out with that woman. The minute I got outside your office,
last night, I knew I'd made a fool of myself, but I had to be sure.
That's why I hired the detective. And when I thought you'd gone out
with that redhead...." A flame of anger flickered briefly in her
eyes. "And to think I let that little rat take me in with his phoney
reports!" Again, she turned pleadingly to Marc. "Please say you'll
forgive me?"

Marc stared at her, aghast, for a moment, wondering if he'd finally
lost his mind, then his gaze darted to the scattered pile of
photographs. Quickly he crossed over and picked them up, looked at
them, and then, dropped them disdainfully to the floor.

"I'll think it over," he said severely, turning to Julie. "I don't know
if I'll forgive you or not. You behaved very badly, I think. I'm going
to my room to think about it, and I'll let you know my decision in
exactly half an hour."

With that, he turned and strode majestically out of the room. Reaching
the hallway, out of Julie's sight, he suddenly stopped and the grin
that broke across his face, teetered dangerously on the edge of hearty
laughter.

"I might have known, all along, that Toffee wouldn't photograph," he
murmured. Then, he shook his head wonderingly and continued to his room.

It would be nice, he thought, just having lunch ... in his own home ...
with his own wife.



        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK YOU CAN'T SCARE ME! ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


